Deeper and deeper LD 48 Brainstorm Notes

storytelling
	like a plot
	story of someone who does something minorly wrong
		gets deeper and deeper into a situation
			everything they try to do gets them deeper into a worse situation
				e.g. stole something - lie about it - stole a car to dodge cops - just keeps escalating
					something trivial lie about something that wasn't that important
						life descends out of control
						branching story 

	so what ar ethe player choices
	

what else?

	dream in a dream in a dream
		something Philip K. Dick-ish
			like the world you think you see is not the real world
			player guessing if they're in someone else's game?
				small
					slightly weird thing happens out of the norm in an otherwise mundane situation
						interactive fiction --> like a choose your own adventure
							some buttons for what to do
							run into beds; choose to lay down and sleep
								that leads you to a sub adventure 
								if you lay down and sleep you dream
									and in your dream you're doing something and then there's a bed
										what if you have a resource - find the alarm clock - like 
											is the goal of the game to get back to reality
	but when you get back up and you think you found the starting world
		what if the number of sleeps and wakeups don't match, so you were dreaming before or am I dreaming now
			sleep in bed ons treet 
			what if mechanic involves alarm clock 
				so you set it and it has to go off to get back out of dream
					alarm clock is the timer you gotta get back up there but you gotta find the bed each time
						lower level three dreams down something you need to do
							Kissing valentino by crystal blue italian stream
							i'm in a dream and something great is about to happen
							and then I wake up
						each level like a puzzle
							either solve it in real-time, but you gotta set the timer
							every player gets a different experience of the game
							because they might set alarm in 10 minutes 
								but [stay alive mechanic?]
								but not nearly enough time because you gotta do it in the underlying world
								then chased by monster if it takes too long
								monster is a little faster than you
									Twine like a series of cards
									write a bunch of paragraph nightmares/scenes
scene
rooms										possible actions
actions
	go north go south
bed
	alarm clock - what if you collect batteries for the alarm clock?
		collect batteries for more time
			why go down at all? some motivation
				initial scene - character wakes up from a dream
				- kissing valentino dream e.g. it's a really good dream
				pre-determined mazes --> shuffled and you gotta go through the narrative maze
					some kind of motivation to get to the bottom
				ephesmophoria
					persephone visits underworld, eats a pomegranate seed and has to return every year
					play the mini-game find the bed, and get some melatonin capsules dare not use bed without alarm clock
						puzzles at higher levels you have suspended
						must have alarm clock or you won't wake up

Level 1 - need screwdriver to fix alarm clock
Level 2 - find screwdriver from the garage
		but if you sleep on this level you're horribly depressed and want out of the world but only on this level
			mini-tiny worlds with puzzles and dreams

when you enter - decide to go down to dream by going to sleep
	offered chance to set the alarm clock
		deciding how many moves you've got on the lower level
			somehow gotta make a way to make that decision intelligently
			choice that's meaningful that you have some chance of figuring out
				game is like a bridge - guess how well you'll do each level
					e.g. GO take all the territory you can but no more

when you dream each dream has its own aesthetic
	one is a nightmare,
	one is a crazy flying dream,
	one is trippy, 
	one is silly,
	one is a relationship-centered
		could be a little simple twitch game in javascript
		i'm in a twitch game, simple platformer
	one dream is just kind of crazy 

	each dream gives you different mechanics

top-level - the ordinary world
	set the alarm clock for 7 AM next morning to get up and go to work
	you have 8 hours from 11:00 PM
		but you fall asleep and are running around in dream world
			you must go have another dream to solve it - multiple pathways with alarm clock
			decide between time in this first dream world and time in the second one
				sense of what you're going to dream
				multiplayer and players could leave breadcrumbs
					day or two afterwards 100s of people will play the game
						

	what if in these dreams, you met other players
		meeting the other players no problem, making it interesting
		dream ghosts of other players on the same page as you
			floating around the javascript page
			advantage or disadvantage to being in the same dream with other people?
				how long they set clocks for

	paired with somebody
		you get the valentino dream if you're on the same level at the same time with them
		but you have no way of directly communicating with them
		game of getting cooperation from another player when you can't find that player necessarily
			we don't provide chat
			for another level multiple people? on level A you're dreaming that you're a sailor and you need six people to lift a lifeboat
				you see the session stats (game starts every 15 minutes) then at end: 
					had 100 people 12 dreams generated, 
					7 of 8 objectives accomplished
					people stay and be NPC's for other people
						like I'll stay on the boat

e.g.
	hold ladder, climb up to get screw driver in level 3
		what if it was in real time like sit there for a minute and then push the button
	go to sailboats
	just sit here for a minute then a person appears
		each level has a simple thing
			e.g. I need worms to catch the fish
		have control over which dream you get?
			are you certain you'll end up in that dream
you have to get back to your original waking state to exit
	first dream needs to be scary in some way something you don't want - a nightmare
		then you need to get out of that but you go deeper and deeper
		you dream you're in a pit full of bugs but you need the latter
			set the alarm so you'll eventually get out
				

what should you actually get in a dream?
	go to sleep and kind of figure out the answer in your sleep
		what if it made no cents

MOTIVATIONS TO GO DEEPER
	alarm clock batteries?
	nonsensical?
	kissing Valentino?
	do the dream thing you couldn't do in real life?
		catch the knife thrown to me when we were autoa accident under water could rescue my beloved
		

figuring out the game design with other people
	so how many people are in the room?
		and what objects exist that are needed?
		[Wait for Rescue]
		[Call for Help]
		[Use Ladder X Ladder and One other person required]
		
what if other people look like to you
	dead mother that you always wanted to say goodbye to
		but you have to 
		what they see doesn't agree with you
		you might be the monster fleeing
		but mother is always running away from you

		how to make that fun?
			psychology overtones
		
		you must find a desert land and tell a fallen loved one goodbye

			dreams are cool, but the choices are illogical it's okay
			your choices are things like I can lay down in

				[lay down in bed]
					other people in bed
				[say this to my mother]
				[

Appearance of game
	looks like a twine game, think you're just playing a twine game but it becomes different types of game
		paper used to be expensive so artists rubbed out iamges on paper and put a new image on the paper
			the vague appearance of old artwork was a palimpcest
			vague palimpcest could be ghostly images of other players
				ghosts and dreams

ghost characters, dreams, interactions, top-level world and resolution
	big chunk of writing tomorrow - majority gut work of writing on Saturday
	play with idea of people
		e.g. i'm a monster, but someone else is the mom
			not that many people playing; what if it's just 1?
				but peaks where there were 20 people playing, but lots of times when 3 were playing
				conflict points and puzzle points

Say there is o

incorporate some "rooms"/"Dreams" into the maze only if there are certain amount of players?
	and thenif someone leaves...? Turn their target into an AI who goes straight up the dream world matrix?


GHOST GOAL IDEAS???
1 Player
2 Player
3 Players


SATURDAY
bulk of writing here
	early morning and tonight
		AS MANY AS POSSIBLE - dreams/ghosts/interactions
		2:30pm start work day which i sholland so that's like 7:30am here?

	but what about ladders and stuff?

